# repo_setup

Ansible role to generate CentOS Stream 9 and RHEL 9 distribution based Base OS and OpenStack Antelope/Master DLRN yum repos
using [repo-setup](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/repo-setup) tool and rhos-release utility.

It is used in Production chain pipeline to generate repos for integration and component line.
The CentOS Stream and DLRN repos are generated by repo-setup project. It gets installed by repo_setup role
using `cifmw_repo_setup_src` role default var.

## Privilege escalation
`become` may be set to true if you're deploying the repositories for the system.

## Parameters
* `cifmw_repo_setup_basedir`: (String) Installation base directory. Defaults to `cifmw_basedir` which defaults to `~/ci-framework-data`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_promotion`: (String) Promotion line you want to deploy. Defaults to `current-podified`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_branch`: (String) Branch/release you want to deploy. Defaults to `zed`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_dlrn_uri`: (String) DLRN base URI. Defaults to `https://trunk.rdoproject.org/`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_rdo_mirror`: (String) Address from which to install RDO packages. Defaults to `{{ cifmw_repo_setup_dlrn_uri }}`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_os_release`: (String) Operating system release. Defaults to `{{ ansible_distribution|lower }}`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_src`: (String) repo-setup repository location. Defaults to `https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/repo-setup`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_output`: (String) Repository files output. Defaults to `{{ cifmw_repo_setup_basedir }}/artifacts/repositories`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_additional_repos`: (String) Additional repos(ceph, deps) to enable. Defaults to `''`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_env`: (Dict) Environment variables to be passed to repo_setup cli . Defaults to `'{}'`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_enable_rhos_release`: (Boolean) Toggle `rhos-release` support. Defaults to `False`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_dlrn_hash_tag`: (String) repo-setup dlrn-hash-tag. Defaults to `{}`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_component_name`: (String) component repo to setup. Used in component lines. Defaults to ''.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_component_promotion_tag`: (String) DLRN hash tag to use for component repo setup. Defaults to `component-ci-testing`.

### Optional parameters for rhos-release
* `cifmw_repo_setup_rhos_release_rpm`: (String) URL to rhos-release RPM.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_rhos_release_args`: (String) Parameters to pass down to `rhos-release`.
* `cifmw_repo_setup_rhos_release_gpg_check`: (Bool) Skips the gpg check during rhos-release rpm installation. Defaults to `True`.

## Notes

### Use repo-setup role with custom DLRN server

When we use repo-setup role with custom DLRN server. The server might need custom TLS certificates.
Make sure we set `cifmw_repo_setup_env` variable while running repo-setup role.
```
cifmw_repo_setup_env:
  CURL_CA_BUNDLE: "/etc/pki/ca-trust/extracted/openssl/ca-bundle.trust.crt"
```

## Examples

### Generate CentOS Stream 9 podified-ci-testing antelope dlrn repos

```yaml
---
- hosts: localhost
  vars:
    cifmw_repo_setup_promotion: "podified-ci-testing"
    cifmw_repo_setup_branch: "antelope"
    cifmw_repo_setup_os_release: centos
    cifmw_repo_setup_dist_major_version: 9
  tasks:
    - name: Run repo-setup role
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: repo_setup
```

### Generate CentOS Stream 9 baremetal component antelope dlrn repos

```yaml
---
- hosts: localhost
  vars:
    cifmw_repo_setup_branch: "antelope"
    cifmw_repo_setup_os_release: centos
    cifmw_repo_setup_dist_major_version: 9
    cifmw_repo_setup_component_name: baremetal
  tasks:
    - name: Run repo-setup role
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: repo_setup
```

### Generate RHEL-9 podified-ci-testing osp18 dlrn repos

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  vars:
    cifmw_repo_setup_promotion: "podified-ci-testing"
    cifmw_repo_setup_branch: "osp18"
    cifmw_repo_setup_os_release: rhel
    cifmw_repo_setup_dist_major_version: 9
    cifmw_repo_setup_dlrn_uri: <DOWNSTREAM DLRN URL>
    cifmw_repo_setup_rhos_release_rpm: <RHOS RELEASE RPM URL>
    cifmw_repo_setup_enable_rhos_release: true
    cifmw_repo_setup_rhos_release_args: "ceph-6.0 -r 9.4"
  tasks:
    - name: Run repo-setup role
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: repo_setup
        apply:
          environment:
            CURL_CA_BUNDLE: "/etc/pki/ca-trust/extracted/openssl/ca-bundle.trust.crt"
```
