docs/source/reproducers/01-considerations.md, before:

# Environment reproducers general considerations
## Tested environment
This reproducer has been successfully tested on a CentOS Stream 9 hypervisor
running latest CRC qcow2, and latest CentOS Stream 9 qcow2 images.

It *may* work on RHEL based hypervisor and VMs, provided you give the correct
information for the [discover_latest_image](../roles/discover_latest_image.md)
role/plugin, or download beforehand the images and consume them from within the
configuration, but it **wasn't tested** (yet).

## Prerequisites
### CRC
The CRC VM has to be properly set up prior to running the reproducer play. You
may get to that leveraging either the rhol_crc role from the CI Framework, or
manually by calling `crc setup && crc start -p pull-secret`.

Once the CRC VM is properly started, you can then stop it and undefine it as
follows:
```Bash
$ virsh -c qemu:///system destroy crc
$ virsh -c qemu:///system undefine crc
```

Since most of the ranges are hard-coded for now, please ensure no network is
pre-existing:
```Bash
$ virsh -c qemu:///system net-list --all
$ virsh -c qemu:///system net-destroy <NETWORK>
$ virsh -c qemu:///system net-undefine <NETWORK>
```

You then have to ensure you have the following content on the target hypervisor:
- ~/.crc/machine/crc/crc.qcow2
- ~/.crc/machine/crc/id_*
- ~/.crc/machine/crc/kubeconfig

### Ssh authorized_keys
On the target hypervisor, you have to ensure the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys has all
of the needed public keys. It will then be copied in the various virtual machines
the reproducer will create.

## Needed parameters
While we provide the "simple" layout, consuming three nodes, you may want
to provide your own layout, maybe with more compute, or some other kind of
node.

In any cases, the following data is the bare minimal:

- `cifmw_path`: you can take the same value as in the provided file, or extend it as needed
- `cifmw_libvirt_manager_configuration`: this dict is mandatory in order to create the layout.

In the `cifmw_libvirt_manager_configuration`, there are also some conventions
and mandatory content/information.

In the `vms` section, please ensure you have at least "controller" and "crc".
Those names are fixed and used later as static reference.

In the `networks` section, you can define your own custom networks. Usually,
you can take the same values we provide in the existing layout.

Note that, if you just want to get more compute, you can play with the `amount`
value. It will then create `compute-[0..n]` virtual machines.

Usually, you can pass the provided `scenarios/reproducers/3-nodes.yml` environment.

Commit message:

[reproducer] add doc note to create CRC with proper size

docs/source/reproducers/01-considerations.md, after:

# Environment reproducers general considerations
## Tested environment
This reproducer has been successfully tested on a CentOS Stream 9 hypervisor
running latest CRC qcow2, and latest CentOS Stream 9 qcow2 images.

It *may* work on RHEL based hypervisor and VMs, provided you give the correct
information for the [discover_latest_image](../roles/discover_latest_image.md)
role/plugin, or download beforehand the images and consume them from within the
configuration, but it **wasn't tested** (yet).

## Prerequisites
### CRC
The CRC VM has to be properly set up prior to running the reproducer play. You
may get to that leveraging either the rhol_crc role from the CI Framework, or
manually by calling `crc setup && crc start -p pull-secret`.

Note: make sure to create the CRC with proper disk size, e.g. 100G, it won't
be resized during reproducer create.

Once the CRC VM is properly started, you can then stop it and undefine it as
follows:
```Bash
$ virsh -c qemu:///system destroy crc
$ virsh -c qemu:///system undefine crc
```

Since most of the ranges are hard-coded for now, please ensure no network is
pre-existing:
```Bash
$ virsh -c qemu:///system net-list --all
$ virsh -c qemu:///system net-destroy <NETWORK>
$ virsh -c qemu:///system net-undefine <NETWORK>
```

You then have to ensure you have the following content on the target hypervisor:
- ~/.crc/machine/crc/crc.qcow2
- ~/.crc/machine/crc/id_*
- ~/.crc/machine/crc/kubeconfig

### Ssh authorized_keys
On the target hypervisor, you have to ensure the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys has all
of the needed public keys. It will then be copied in the various virtual machines
the reproducer will create.

## Needed parameters
While we provide the "simple" layout, consuming three nodes, you may want
to provide your own layout, maybe with more compute, or some other kind of
node.

In any cases, the following data is the bare minimal:

- `cifmw_path`: you can take the same value as in the provided file, or extend it as needed
- `cifmw_libvirt_manager_configuration`: this dict is mandatory in order to create the layout.

In the `cifmw_libvirt_manager_configuration`, there are also some conventions
and mandatory content/information.

In the `vms` section, please ensure you have at least "controller" and "crc".
Those names are fixed and used later as static reference.

In the `networks` section, you can define your own custom networks. Usually,
you can take the same values we provide in the existing layout.

Note that, if you just want to get more compute, you can play with the `amount`
value. It will then create `compute-[0..n]` virtual machines.

Usually, you can pass the provided `scenarios/reproducers/3-nodes.yml` environment.
