ci_framework/roles/cifmw_cephadm/README.md, before:

# cifmw_cephadm

Deploys a Ceph cluster on a set of EDPM nodes using
[cephadm](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephadm).

The
[openstack-k8s-operators HCI documentation](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/docs/blob/main/hci.md)
describes how to run Ceph on EDPM nodes but leaves it to the reader
to install Ceph with `cephadm`. The `cifmw_cephadm` role and
`ceph.yml` playbook may be used to automate the Ceph installation.

Before this role is run the following roles should be run.

- `cifmw_create_admin`: creates a user for `cephadm`
- `cifmw_block_device`: creates a virtual disk to store data
- `cifmw_ceph_spec`: defines the Ceph cluster layout

After this role is run, the `cifmw_ceph_client` role can generate
a k8s CR which OpenStack can use to connect to the deployed Ceph
cluster.

The `ceph.yml` playbook in the playbooks directory provides a complete
working example which does all of the above and has been tested on
a three EDPM node deployment from
[install_yamls](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls).

## Privilege escalation
Requires root to install Ceph server.

## Parameters

The `ceph.yml` playbook defaults these parameters so that they do not
need to be changed for a typical EDPM deployment.

* `cifmw_cephadm_bootstrap_host`: Set this to the hostname of the first
  EDPM node. The `cephadm.yml` playbook will do this for you provided
  the inventory is set correctly.

* `cifmw_cephadm_default_container`: If this is value is `true`, then
  `cephadm bootstrap` is not passed the `--image` parameter and whatever
  default Ceph container defined inside of `cephadm` is used. Otherwise
  use `cifmw_cephadm_container_ns` (e.g. "quay.io/ceph"),
  `cifmw_cephadm_container_image` (e.g. "ceph") and
  `cifmw_cephadm_container_tag` (e.g. "v18").

* `cifmw_cephadm_spec_ansible_host`: the path to the Ceph spec
  generated by the `cifmw_ceph_spec` role (e.g. `/tmp/ceph_spec.yml`).

* `cifmw_cephadm_bootstrap_conf`: the path to the initial Ceph
  configuration file generated by the `cifmw_ceph_spec` role
  (e.g. `/tmp/initial_ceph.conf`)

* `cifmw_ceph_client_vars`: the path to ceph client variables passed
  as input to the `cifmw_ceph_client` role
  (e.g. `/tmp/ceph_client.yml`).

* `cifmw_cephadm_pools`: see below

* `cifmw_cephadm_keys`: see below

* `cifmw_cephadm_rgw_network`: the Ceph `public_network` where the `radosgw`
   instances should be bound. The network range is gathered from the
   `cifmw_cephadm_bootstrap_conf` file, which represents the initial Ceph
   configuration file passed at bootstrap time.

* `cifmw_cephadm_rgw_vip`: the ingress daemon deployed along with `radosgw`
   requires a `VIP` that will be owned by `keepalived`. This IP address will
   be used as entry point to reach the `radosgw backends` through `haproxy`.

Use the `cifmw_cephadm_pools` list of dictionaries to define pools for
Nova (vms), Cinder (volumes), Cinder-backups (backups), and Glance (images).
```
fmw_cephadm_pools:
- name: vms
  pg_autoscale_mode: True
  target_size_ratio: 0.3
  application: rbd
- name: volumes
  pg_autoscale_mode: True
  target_size_ratio: 0.3
  application: rbd
- name: backups
  pg_autoscale_mode: True
  target_size_ratio: 0.2
  application: rbd
- name: images
  target_size_ratio: 0.2
  pg_autoscale_mode: True
  application: rbd
```

Use the `cifmw_cephadm_keys` list of dictionaries to define a CephX
key which OpenStack can use authenticate to Ceph. The `cephx_key`
Ansible module will generate a random value to pass for the key value.
```
cifmw_cephadm_keys:
  - name: client.openstack
    key: "{{ cephx.key }}"
    mode: '0600'
    caps:
      mgr: allow *
      mon: profile rbd
      osd: profile rbd pool=vms, profile rbd pool=volumes, profile rbd pool=backups, profile rbd pool=images
```

## Examples

See `ceph.yml` in the playbooks directory.

## Tips for using standalone

### Pick the appropriate storage network

In the `ceph.yml` playbook, set the `storage_network_range` variable.

* If network isolation is not being used, then set the
  `storage_network_range` variable to `192.168.122.0/24` (the default
  EDPM IP address range).

* If network isolation is used, then as per the
  [openstack-k8s-operators networking documentation](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/docs/blob/main/networking.md),
  the default storage network is `172.18.0.0/24` and the
  `storage_network_range` variable should be set accordingly.
  As per the
  [openstack-k8s-operators HCI documentation](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/docs/blob/main/hci.md)
  a shortened `OpenStackDataPlane` services list can be used to
  configure the storage network before Ceph and OpenStack are
  deployed.

See the README of the `cifmw_ceph_spec` role for more details on how
the `storage_network_range` variable is used.

### Update the Ansible inventory and environment variables

This example assumes
[ci-framework](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/ci-framework)
and
[install_yamls](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls)
git repositories are in in $HOME and that EDPM nodes have been
provisioned.

The `cifmw_cephadm`, `cifmw_create_admin`, and `cifmw_block_device`
roles need to be able to SSH into all EDPM nodes but the default
inventory only has localhost. The devsetup process in
[install_yamls](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls)
generates each EDPM node and its IP address sequentially starting at
192.168.122.100. The following command may be used to create an
inventory with the group `edpm` containing `N` EDPM nodes.
```
export N=2
echo -e "localhost ansible_connection=local\n[edpm]" > ~/ci-framework/inventory.yml
for I in $(seq 100 $((N+100))); do
  echo 192.168.122.${I} >> ~/ci-framework/inventory.yml
done
```
[install_yamls](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls)
generates an SSH key `install_yamls/out/edpm/ansibleee-ssh-key-id_rsa`
for root on every EDPM node. Configure the Ansible environment to use
this user and key.
```
export ANSIBLE_REMOTE_USER=root
export ANSIBLE_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY=~/install_yamls/out/edpm/ansibleee-ssh-key-id_rsa
export ANSIBLE_HOST_KEY_CHECKING=False
```

### Run the Ceph playbook

```
cd ~/ci-framework/
ansible-playbook ci_framework/playbooks/ceph.yml
```

Commit message:

Update ceph roles for cloud-admin
Update the ceph roles in ci-framework so that they work
when cloud-admin is the Ansible user instead of root.
Related to a84652db296f2a329002068ae59a837b4dfc539e

Also, fix Import cephx keys task which was broken by
commit f2f62f729e37d17d14daa903320ca207c50d1b18

Signed-off-by: John Fulton <fulton@redhat.com>

ci_framework/roles/cifmw_cephadm/README.md, after:

# cifmw_cephadm

Deploys a Ceph cluster on a set of EDPM nodes using
[cephadm](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephadm).

The
[openstack-k8s-operators HCI documentation](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/docs/blob/main/hci.md)
describes how to run Ceph on EDPM nodes but leaves it to the reader
to install Ceph with `cephadm`. The `cifmw_cephadm` role and
`ceph.yml` playbook may be used to automate the Ceph installation.

Before this role is run the following roles should be run.

- `cifmw_create_admin`: creates a user for `cephadm`
- `cifmw_block_device`: creates a virtual disk to store data
- `cifmw_ceph_spec`: defines the Ceph cluster layout

After this role is run, the `cifmw_ceph_client` role can generate
a k8s CR which OpenStack can use to connect to the deployed Ceph
cluster.

The `ceph.yml` playbook in the playbooks directory provides a complete
working example which does all of the above and has been tested on
a three EDPM node deployment from
[install_yamls](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls).

## Privilege escalation
Requires an Ansible user who can become root to install Ceph server.

## Parameters

The `ceph.yml` playbook defaults these parameters so that they do not
need to be changed for a typical EDPM deployment.

* `cifmw_cephadm_bootstrap_host`: Set this to the hostname of the first
  EDPM node. The `cephadm.yml` playbook will do this for you provided
  the inventory is set correctly.

* `cifmw_cephadm_default_container`: If this is value is `true`, then
  `cephadm bootstrap` is not passed the `--image` parameter and whatever
  default Ceph container defined inside of `cephadm` is used. Otherwise
  use `cifmw_cephadm_container_ns` (e.g. "quay.io/ceph"),
  `cifmw_cephadm_container_image` (e.g. "ceph") and
  `cifmw_cephadm_container_tag` (e.g. "v18").

* `cifmw_cephadm_spec_ansible_host`: the path to the Ceph spec
  generated by the `cifmw_ceph_spec` role (e.g. `/tmp/ceph_spec.yml`).

* `cifmw_cephadm_bootstrap_conf`: the path to the initial Ceph
  configuration file generated by the `cifmw_ceph_spec` role
  (e.g. `/tmp/initial_ceph.conf`)

* `cifmw_ceph_client_vars`: the path to ceph client variables passed
  as input to the `cifmw_ceph_client` role
  (e.g. `/tmp/ceph_client.yml`).

* `cifmw_cephadm_pools`: see below

* `cifmw_cephadm_keys`: see below

* `cifmw_cephadm_rgw_network`: the Ceph `public_network` where the `radosgw`
   instances should be bound. The network range is gathered from the
   `cifmw_cephadm_bootstrap_conf` file, which represents the initial Ceph
   configuration file passed at bootstrap time.

* `cifmw_cephadm_rgw_vip`: the ingress daemon deployed along with `radosgw`
   requires a `VIP` that will be owned by `keepalived`. This IP address will
   be used as entry point to reach the `radosgw backends` through `haproxy`.

Use the `cifmw_cephadm_pools` list of dictionaries to define pools for
Nova (vms), Cinder (volumes), Cinder-backups (backups), and Glance (images).
```
fmw_cephadm_pools:
- name: vms
  pg_autoscale_mode: True
  target_size_ratio: 0.3
  application: rbd
- name: volumes
  pg_autoscale_mode: True
  target_size_ratio: 0.3
  application: rbd
- name: backups
  pg_autoscale_mode: True
  target_size_ratio: 0.2
  application: rbd
- name: images
  target_size_ratio: 0.2
  pg_autoscale_mode: True
  application: rbd
```

Use the `cifmw_cephadm_keys` list of dictionaries to define a CephX
key which OpenStack can use authenticate to Ceph. The `cephx_key`
Ansible module will generate a random value to pass for the key value.
```
cifmw_cephadm_keys:
  - name: client.openstack
    key: "{{ cephx.key }}"
    mode: '0600'
    caps:
      mgr: allow *
      mon: profile rbd
      osd: profile rbd pool=vms, profile rbd pool=volumes, profile rbd pool=backups, profile rbd pool=images
```

## Examples

See `ceph.yml` in the playbooks directory.

## Tips for using standalone

### Pick the appropriate storage network

In the `ceph.yml` playbook, set the `storage_network_range` variable.

* If network isolation is not being used, then set the
  `storage_network_range` variable to `192.168.122.0/24` (the default
  EDPM IP address range).

* If network isolation is used, then as per the
  [openstack-k8s-operators networking documentation](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/docs/blob/main/networking.md),
  the default storage network is `172.18.0.0/24` and the
  `storage_network_range` variable should be set accordingly.
  As per the
  [openstack-k8s-operators HCI documentation](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/docs/blob/main/hci.md)
  a shortened `OpenStackDataPlane` services list can be used to
  configure the storage network before Ceph and OpenStack are
  deployed.

See the README of the `cifmw_ceph_spec` role for more details on how
the `storage_network_range` variable is used.

### Update the Ansible inventory and environment variables

This example assumes
[ci-framework](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/ci-framework)
and
[install_yamls](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls)
git repositories are in in $HOME and that EDPM nodes have been
provisioned.

The `cifmw_cephadm`, `cifmw_create_admin`, and `cifmw_block_device`
roles need to be able to SSH into all EDPM nodes but the default
inventory only has localhost. The devsetup process in
[install_yamls](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls)
generates each EDPM node and its IP address sequentially starting at
192.168.122.100. The following command may be used to create an
inventory with the group `edpm` containing `N` EDPM nodes.
```
export N=2
echo -e "localhost ansible_connection=local\n[edpm]" > ~/ci-framework/inventory.yml
for I in $(seq 100 $((N+100))); do
  echo 192.168.122.${I} >> ~/ci-framework/inventory.yml
done
```
[install_yamls](https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls)
generates an SSH key `install_yamls/out/edpm/ansibleee-ssh-key-id_rsa`
for root on every EDPM node. Configure the Ansible environment to use
this user and key.
```
export ANSIBLE_REMOTE_USER=cloud-admin
export ANSIBLE_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY=~/install_yamls/out/edpm/ansibleee-ssh-key-id_rsa
export ANSIBLE_HOST_KEY_CHECKING=False
```

### Run the Ceph playbook

```
cd ~/ci-framework/
ansible-playbook ci_framework/playbooks/ceph.yml
```
