ci_framework/roles/ci_setup/README.md, before:

# ci_setup

Ensure you have the needed directories and packages for the rest of the tasks.

## Privilege escalation

- install packages

## Parameters

- `cifmw_ci_setup_basedir`: (String) Base directory for the directory tree. Default to `~/ci-framework-data`.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_packages`: (List) List of packages to install.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_openshift_client_version`: (String) Version of openshift
  client to be installed on the system. Defaults to `stable` i.e. the latest
  stable release of the client.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_rhel_rhsm_default_repos` (List) List of repos to be enabled via Red Hat Subscription Manager.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_yum_repos` (list) List of dicts holding information on the repos to be enabled.

## Example of cifmw_ci_setup_yum_repos

```YAML
cifmw_ci_setup_yum_repos:
  - name: crb
    baseurl: https://mirror.stream.centos.org/9-stream/CRB/x86_64/os/
    description: Code ready builder
    gpgcheck: true
```

## Cleanup

You may call the `cleanup.yml` role in order to clear the directory tree.

Commit message:

Avoid warning the user about oc not found
The approach we took for choose if oc needs to be installed or not
is to call it, and if it fails, rescue the task and install it.
That yields an error that a user is usually interpreting as a real
one. We should not pass that error to the user, and ignore it.

At the same time, it seems that under certains circustamces, the fact
catching mechanism is capturing the variable that holds where oc
should be installed, what's a problem if the previous run was done
with a different user, like root, as the extraction of oc will fail
because of lack of permission.

ci_framework/roles/ci_setup/README.md, after:

# ci_setup

Ensure you have the needed directories and packages for the rest of the tasks.

## Privilege escalation

- install packages

## Parameters

- `cifmw_ci_setup_basedir`: (String) Base directory for the directory tree. Default to `~/ci-framework-data`.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_packages`: (List) List of packages to install.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_openshift_client_version`: (String) Version of openshift
  client to be installed on the system. Defaults to `stable` i.e. the latest
  stable release of the client.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_rhel_rhsm_default_repos` (List) List of repos to be enabled via Red Hat Subscription Manager.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_yum_repos` (list) List of dicts holding information on the repos to be enabled.
- `cifmw_ci_setup_oc_install_path`: (String) Path where the OCP client binary should be placed. Defaults to `~/bin`.

## Example of cifmw_ci_setup_yum_repos

```YAML
cifmw_ci_setup_yum_repos:
  - name: crb
    baseurl: https://mirror.stream.centos.org/9-stream/CRB/x86_64/os/
    description: Code ready builder
    gpgcheck: true
```

## Cleanup

You may call the `cleanup.yml` role in order to clear the directory tree.
