# Available hooks description

## ceph-deploy.yml
This hook allow to deploy the "toy ceph" as explained [here](https://github.com/fultonj/zed/tree/main/edpm).
### Output
* `cifmw_ceph_conf`: secret generated by the ceph installation, to be used for
consumers (base64 encoded).
* `cifmw_ceph_fsid`: ceph FSID generated by the ceph installation.

## ceph.yml
This playbook was moved from `playbooks/ceph.yml` to `hooks/playbooks` location
on removing "import_playbook" usage in ci-framework project.
### Input
* `ceph_namespace`: (string) The Kubernetes namespace where the Rook Ceph cluster will be deployed.
* `ceph_cluster_name`: (string) The name of the CephCluster resource.
* `ceph_osds_device_filter`: (string) A device filter to automatically discover and use storage devices on nodes. Can be: "all" or "vd."
* `ceph_create_client`: (boolean) control if the Ceph client and keyring should be created.
* `ceph_client_name`: (string) The name of the Kubernetes Secret that will store the Ceph client credentials.
* `ceph_pools`: (list of dictionaries) Define Ceph pools to be created.
* `ceph_data_dir`: (string) Local path where generated Ceph configuration files will be saved.
* `rook_version` (string) The version of the Rook Ceph operator to deploy.
* `ceph_cluster_nodes` (list) List of node labels target for Ceph OSD deployment.

Example `ceph_pools`:
```yaml
ceph_pools:
  - name: "volumes"
    application: "rbd"
    pg_num: 32
  - name: "backups"
    application: "rbd"
    pg_num: 32
```
### Output
None

## kustomize_cr.yml
This hook enables customization of CR files, using oc kustomize.
### Input
* `cifmw_kustomize_cr_artifact_dir`: (Optional) Destination directory to place the
generated kustomized CR file. Defaults to "*{{ ansible_user_dir }}/ci-framework-data/kustomize_cr*".
* `cifmw_kustomize_cr_include_vars`: (Optional) List of files to be loaded
before running kustomize.
* `cifmw_kustomize_cr_file_path`: Path to directory containing the CR file.
* `cifmw_kustomize_cr_file_name`: File name of the CR file to be kustomized.
* `cifmw_kustomize_cr_template`: Relative path to kustomization template file.
This path should be relative to hook playbook directory.
### Output
* `kustomized_{{ cifmw_kustomize_cr_file_name }}`: Kustomized file which is
available at *cifmw_kustomize_cr_artifact_dir* to be consumed by the deployment.

## kuttl_openstack_prep.yml
This hook provides openstack_prep variables for kuttl tests.
### Input
None
### Output
* `cifmw_kuttl_openstack_prep_vars`: Environment variable to be used during openstack_prep
step in install_yamls.

## noop.yml
Just a dummy hook, mostly used as a demonstrator of the hook workflow.

It doesn't have any output.

## rabbitmq_tuning.yml
Tunes rabbitmq with more conservative resources. Useful for small environment,
such as CI.

It doesn't have any output.

## restart_nova_scheduler.yml
Restarts nova-scheduler in order to refresh known cells. Useful in CI, mostly,
but may be used elsewhere in case you want to add compute/cells.

It doesn't have any output.

## validate_podified_deployment.yml
Ensure podified deployment is successful by checking the running pods/services.

It doesn't have any output.

## link2file.yml

This play replaces the given soft links with their respective source files. It
is required to avoid kustomize errors when using symbolic links. This play has
no output.

### Required variables - link2file

* `cifmw_link2file_files` (str) A comma separated string of file names to be
  replaced.
